---
layout: post
title: Privacy & Trust
excerpt: "Usable Security - Week 5"
categories: [Usable Security]
comments: true
image:
  feature: https://images.pexels.com/photos/911738/pexels-photo-911738.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&dpr=3&h=750&w=1260
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---
## Usable Security - Week 5

# Privacy & Trust

## Reflection 
**draft**
This week’s topic for Usable Security is rather large being privacy and trust which is a major aspect of security that affects every person. The first reading coming from Danah Boyd, Networked Privacy which looks at some of the privacy issues we face online. Boyd gives the example of 23andMe which is a product that allows people to submit their DNA to learn about their genealogy, but it exposes information about your family whether they want to share this data or not. This is showing that when looking at our data offline it’s still network and there’s still links to each other. So, this leads Boyd to saying we are a product of the people we know. 


## Discussion 
### Networked Privacy:
* “Privacy often focuses on the individual… while models often focus on groups”
* 23andMe
* *    Share data about family members without their consent
* *    Our data is networks
*  Achieving full control is impossible

**Questions:**
If we can't have full control, what is the min amount of control users should have over their privacy?

### Online Trust, Trustworthiness or Assurance:
We allow computer systems to act as agents
combo of risk and uncertainty is critical for understanding trust
(human to human) vs (human to system)
we might trust people in different contexts, but trust few in every context
online dating
starts low risk and increasing
trustworthiness is a characteristic or property of an individual
reputation
signals cues and traces
trustworthiness = willing to take risk
Robert Putnam argue that trust is required to produce cooperation, which in turn helps create productive societies
coop over time leads to entrustment
refers to several related but distinct concepts, including credibility, security, surety, and reliability.
hard to blame when a system fails

**Questions:**
With things like GDPR in mind. If we treat systems and human agents as “equal” in our models of security and privacy, should policies like GDPR also protect devices of those citizens? (stupid questions? its about the citizen's data)



### Collective Information Practice:
“privacy concerns are not something that can be retrofitted”
Social and technical are irremediably recursively linked
privacy embodies different aspects such as:
solitude (right to be left alone)
confidentiality (right to control one's own info)
autonomy (right to control self-presentation)
"privacy is approached as social consideration... security seen as technical"
1. not what privacy and security ARE but rather DO
2. formulations of risk and danger (acceptable and unacceptable behavior is labeled)
3. flows of info also server as markers of social boundaries (about the uses)
4. collective information practice
Whitteen and Tygar (1999) public key encryption and digital signature in email showed people would use security
concerns about the development and evaluation of novel tech
e-commerce
phishing sites
privacy as economic rationality
placelab - end user chooses live of specific
k-anonymity - based on amount of nearby users
RFID in stores
privacy as practical action
about the practical things people do
privacy and security as ongoing features of activity which must always be done security
accountability
privacy as discursive practice
how the notion of privacy and security are used to categorize activities separating acceptable (secure) actions from unacceptable.
"technical notions of security are manifestations of social accounts of danger"
culture and risk change over time
secrets
Schneier notes that security mechanisms that aren’t understood… by everyone don’t work
Questions:
In a situation that a product is out what are some things that can still be done to help?
Zoom’s issues. With corona and there increased used they shifted developers to only work of security updates for a few months. 

### Additional Things To Talk About:
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)
Washington Privacy Act (WPA) – Failed (again)
Due to differences over whether state attorney general or consumers in courts power should have to enforce the law
Question: How do you think should have the agency to have the power to enforce the law? 
Facial Req bill passed
