---
layout: post
title: Sociotechnical Ontology
excerpt: "Usable Security - Week 2"
categories: [Usable Security]
comments: true
image:
  feature: https://i.imgur.com/xtb9k1O.png
  credit: T
  creditlink: 
---

# Sociotechnical Ontology.

## Usable Security - Week 2

First breaking down the title for this week because I didn’t really know what either meant before so I went to the dictionary. Sociotechnical making more sense, just being the relationship between societal and technical aspects of a system or organization. Then ontology similarly is a creating a set of categories for a given subject to describe their properties and the relationships between the objects. So with this sociotechnical ontologies is defining the entities and relations that exist in systems that involve humans and technology (basically all systems).*

The first reading for this week was the DesignX: Complex Sociotechnical System, which expands on the DesignX concept. DesignX being a means to encourage designers to consider the complexities of sociotechnical systems at a level that accounts for the entities and relationships holistically. In addition, this article suggests that designers should take an active role through the entire process from design to implementations. This way the system can be adjusted to improve efficiency and use. I found this article explaining very important concept to consider because over the past few months I’ve become interested in the electric grid. Power systems all over the world are extremely complex with thousands (probably millions) of entities and relationships. This system is extremely important too so changes must be very carefully examined before hand and new technologies that are being discussed are starting to breakdown privacy. Such as providers being able to adjust your thermostat or water heater to improve efficiency but that a rabbit hole for another day. I just found it very applicable and important to read with becoming interested with systems are are interdependent for society. 

The next article was on actor network theory which breaks down the theory that was presented by Callon and raises some issues that are associated. Starting with looking at what actor network theory (AT). When analyzing a complex systems that contains aspects of human, societal and technical entities, you must treat them as equal in terms of how it interacts with the system. Then with this objects, a network based on relationships can be formed to examine the interactions. This seemed very similar to the first article but has a very specific approach to classifying elements within a system and making sure that there is an understanding a machine operating on its own versus operating with human assistance should be consider the same within the network. The first article too seemed to be more of a means to tackle large sociotechnical problems with it's definitions of DesignX. AT reminds me a lot of the Zero Trust network concept where you assume there around now walls to your network. Then it's all about the trust level based on information of the interactions: is it a known IP, is the user at the right privilege level, the time of the interaction, etc. This allows the security to be flexible with an every changing landscape and based on several pieces of information, accounting for more parts of the sociotechnical system. 


*This section is mainly just for myself to remember the concept definition better.

