---
layout: post
title: The Social Study of Digital Technologies
excerpt: "Usable Security - Week 3"
categories: [Usable Security]
comments: true
image:
  feature: https://images.pexels.com/photos/911738/pexels-photo-911738.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&dpr=3&h=750&w=1260
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---
## Usable Security - Week 3

The first reading was Implications for Design by Paul Dourish which dives into the idea that ethnography should be considered for human-computer interaction systems (HCI). Dourish explains that ethnography isn't utilized enough for system development due to designers in the computer science field testing in lab settings. Before going farther I want to break don ethnography because at first I didn't really understand what it was. By definition, ethnography is a social study of customs and interactions of people or cultures. Dourish, in this context, defines it as a tool to generate a report of members perspectives, experiences and analysis to improve system implementation. Along with this sudjestion Dourish raises concerns that come along with including ethnopgraphy as design tool. The different members within the system that are studied will have varring outcomes depending on who is actually study. I can't think of an example of a time where I was building some software/system and had the opportunity to research the 'users' before designing (mainly because I've really only work on school projects or there wasn't time). Though I definitly see the importantance of gathering information for different constitiunites that surround the system to gain more considerations when designing.

Next an article by Susan Leigh Star, The Ethnography of Infrastructure which is similar to the previous but talks a bit more about the specifics of how to conduct the ethnography study. Susan starts off with defining key properties of infrastructure such as embeddedness, transparency, reach or scope and etc. This helps to serve as a mean to have a better understanding of an ideal end goal for a particular infrastructure system. Ideal infrastructure should be invisible to use simply providing a means to accomplish some function. Along with including any standard inheritantly for example, plug-n-play networking protocol capablities for any internet connected device. Another trick that is presented by Star is consider for an information system from the perspective of a literary theorist to find the "master narrative". This is to allow for optimizations for what is consider the main narrative and the still important side stories. Star raises some important problems associated with indicators of a system. With information infrastructure ending as either: a material artifact constructed by people, a trace/record of activities ora veridical representation of the world. 

The last piece is The Field Guide Human-Centered Design which presents a mindset and a method to which designers should follow when creating. Mindset being the main aspect they have three main phases during a project: inspriation, ideation and implementation. With inspiration being the spark of the idea and gather information about people using ethnopgraphy techniques. Then ideaion to test and generate more associated ideas, ending with implementation to maximize impact. Creative confidence, learn from failure, embrace ambiguity all to me sort of mean the same thing. Get expirence and epect to be going into areas that you are un-sure about. After time you will become better at failing and reach your goals faster. Many of the other aspects to having the mindset, are to iterate and be positive which are very important when you have to face constant failure. This mindset is interesting to me because this is something that I want to include more within my day to day life. Being able to charge face first into a problem but feeling confident that you will arrive at a solution is invaluble. Also it's important to realize that it's not just about making a guess and checking but reflecting on the decisions made across all the projects you've done to make better decissions next time.