---
layout: post
title: Theories and Analytic Models for Understanding Networked Power and Conflict
excerpt: "Usable Security - Week 4"
categories: [Usable Security]
comments: true
image:
  feature: https://images.pexels.com/photos/911738/pexels-photo-911738.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&dpr=3&h=750&w=1260
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---
## Usable Security - Week 4

**draft**

This week’s topic was about understanding powers and conflicts that are involved with computer networking. First reading being Degrees of Freedom, Dimensions of Power by Yochai Benkler diving into the origin of the internet and how many of the powers have shaped the it into what we know it to be. Starting with the idea that initially the internet was a platform to facilitate research projects and communications (the ARPANET) which was later adopted by states and the private sector actors. Fast forward to today and we see devices like iPhones where Apple has a huge amount of control over it due to the shift to proprietary controlled devices, software and networks. Also over the years as the internet has grown around the world we have seen a battle between centralized and decentralized forms of the internet. The battle between public, private and the normal users has shown that there needs to be a balance between all actors in this new space. The internet design potentially having big effects on policy, innovation and privacy it is very important that keep things in check to make sure freedom doesn't become lost over time.

Moving on to the next reading for this week was The Contingent Internet by David Clark where we go into a similar topic of how a broad the uses the internet are but we have constant battle to design better means of control points. Clark starts with the idea that the internet is a "general purpose" network versus the telephone line which was a specific purpose. This design to create a network without knowing what is the end application is the key aspect to internet infrastructure as we know it today. Although with that that allows actors like ISPs or providers to potentially "throttle" speeds for certain services to make it seem slow or fast as they need. This has cause the idea of net neutrality to emerge for the movement of treating types of traffic the same no matter the content. Then there's the aspect of governments stepping in and completely controlling what application are allowed for the entire country. Essentially allowing them to control the platforms where people would find themselves voicing opinions and such. For example Facebook or Twitter. This leads Clark to stating proposing that we must be responsible for ensuring the power of the private and public sector don't have complete autonomy over the design.

The last reading being from our own, Dustin O'Hara's Internet Tussle. O'Hara provides a frameworks built upon David Clark's work that helps to analyze the 'tussles' we find in the cyber space. A tussle being a conflict between two parties for example a ISP/application and a customer. The ISP/application complete within a marketplace and customers tussle with providers to get the service they want at a low prices. This is an economic tussle but there is also trust and openness giving in the article. O'Hara then combines all these different means of explanation of tussles to what he refers to as multi-tussle.
